Soon the last video we made a custom widget plug in for our showcase area.
Now what I want to do is implement the sidebar.
All right we've already done half the work.
If you look in functions ph P We already have registered our Sidebar area.
So what we need to do now is go to index ph P and go down to where we have our sidebar which is this
area here.
And before I get rid of this let's make sure that we create our widgets.
All right so we already have the categories 1 we don't have to worry too much about that but let's create
this this text.
Ok so if we go to our back end here we have the categories we can bring that over.
Save that and then we also want the custom text like this one right here.
We'll put that right under the categories placed in our heading and then our text actually want the
text and the button.
So we're going to just grab that right.
We'll save.
And now we can go ahead and replace this stuff.
OK so we want this entire Calo div..
And then this entire column div.
All right.
And then here what we'll do is check to see if the side bar is active.
So I will say if it is active side bar
and the position is also called sidebar
.
OK and then here we're going to say ph P
dynamic sidebar
and save that.
Let's go to the front and reload.
OK.
So there's our widgets these are coming from the back end.
Now for the categories let's let's create some all we have our categories.
They show all they're not showing because there's nothing in them.
OK.
By default it's only going to show categories that have posts in them.
Now these aren't the ones I want at all so I'm going to get rid of these and then I'm just going to
add a couple we're going to say shirts
hats and shoes.
OK.
And if we're going reload you still won't see them because we don't have anything in them.
Now just to make sure that the categories will show up I'm going to just change.
I'm going to add this hello world to all of the categories.
OK.
So now you can see they're showing up.
Now I don't like how this looks.
I wanted to I wanted to use some custom classes some Foundation Classes.
So what we'll do is we'll create a widgets folder in the theme folder
and let's grab.
We're going to go actually when to open this up in Windows.
Ok I'm going to go to includes widgets and I want to grab the categories with you right here.
So we're going to copy that and then we're going to bring it to the theme folder.
Widgets paste that in OK and then we can open that from within sublime.
And what we want to do is add on to the end of the class name custom and we want to just search for
the UL tag and all I want to do is add some classes
.
Ok so class menu and vertical will save it and then we have to include that file in our functions P2P
file.
All right so we want to go to the top and would say require underscore once and then we're going to
pass on
widgets.
Slash What is it.
Class W.P. dash widget dash categories.
OK sure including that file now.
Now we're going to have to register it.
So let's go down to the bottom here
and we'll create a function called MS underscore register widgets
.
We want to pass in the class name which is W.P. underscore widget underscore category's underscore custom
All right.
And then we'll just add an action
.
All right.
Save it and let's go and look at the front end now.
And now the categories you can see has changed and looks a little better.
And the next big thing we have to do is the main content area.
All right so we're going to do that in the next video before we go I just want to split up the index
file into our header and footer files.
So we're going to go from the very top here down to the end of the header tag we're going to cut that
and in it's place we're going to say ph p
get ahead.
OK and then what we'll do is create
a file called Hetter dart ph P
and just paste that in there.
Right.
And we should see no change.
So we'll do the same thing with the footer.
So in index we're going to go from the bottom up to see the Forder cut that out.
And then we're going to put in ph P W P underscore for us.
All right.
Do I get for that.
And then we'll just create a file called footer
and paste that and go back to the front end reload and everything's fine.
OK.
So in the next video get into the main content area